# Get Up and Running with Your First React App: A Step-by-Step Guide

>In this blog post, we'll walk through the process of setting up and starting a new React app from scratch. Whether you're a beginner or an experienced developer, this step-by-step guide will provide you with the information you need to get started with your first React app project. We'll cover topics like installing the necessary tools, creating a new project, and adding features and components to your app. By the end of this post, you'll have a solid foundation for building your own React app and you'll be ready to take your skills to the next level.

1. **Install Node.js**: React is built using JavaScript, so you'll need to have Node.js installed on your computer to run React apps. You can download and install Node.js from the official [website](https://nodejs.org/) or using a package manager like [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) (for macOS) or [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/) (for Windows).

2. **Install the React CLI**: The React command-line interface (CLI) is a tool that allows you to create and manage React projects. To install the React CLI, open a terminal and run the following command:

```sh
npm install -g react-cli

```

3. **Create a new project**: Once you have the React CLI installed, you can create a new React project by running the following command:

This will create a new directory called "my-app" with the basic structure and files needed for a React app.

4. **Install dependencies**: Navigate to the project directory and run the following command to install the required dependencies:

```sh
npm install

```

5. **Start the development server**: Once the dependencies have been installed, you can start the development server by running the following command:

```sh
npm start

```

This will start the development server and open a new browser window with your React app. Any changes you make to the code will be automatically reflected in the browser.

## Conclusion

- Go to the folder
- Open the terminal in that folder
- Run these commands

```sh
npm init react-app my-app
cd my-app
npm start
```
